THE HITCHHIKER'S GUIDE TO THE GALAXY
B Y D O U G L A S A D A M S
2 0 0 1 H A N O M A G
D O C U M E N T V E R S I O N 1 . 0
C O P Y R I G H T © D O U G L A S A D A M S
for Jonny Brock and Clare Gorst and all other Arlingtonians
for tea, sympathy, and a sofa
Far out in the uncharted backwaters of the unfashionable end of
the western spiral arm of the Galaxy lies a small unregarded
yellow sun.
Orbiting this at a distance of roughly ninety-two million miles is
an utterly insignificant little blue green planet whose ape-
descended life forms are so amazingly primitive that they still
think digital watches are a pretty neat idea.
This planet has - or rather had - a problem, which was this: most
of the people on it were unhappy for pretty much of the time.
Many solutions were suggested for this problem, but most of
these were largely concerned with the movements of small green
pieces of paper, which is odd because on the whole it wasn't the
small green pieces of paper that were unhappy.
And so the problem remained; lots of the people were mean, and
most of them were miserable, even the ones with digital watches.
Many were increasingly of the opinion that they'd all made a big
mistake in coming down from the trees in the first place. And
some said that even the trees had been a bad move, and that no
one should ever have left the oceans.
And then, one Thursday, nearly two thousand years after one
man had been nailed to a tree for saying how great it would be to
be nice to people for a change, one girl sitting on her own in a
small cafe in Rickmansworth suddenly realized what it was that
had been going wrong all this time, and she finally knew how the
world could be made a good and happy place. This time it was
right, it would work, and no one would have to get nailed to
anything.
4 / D O U G L A S A D A M S
Sadly, however, before she could get to a phone to tell anyone-
about it, a terribly stupid catastrophe occurred, and the idea was
lost forever.
This is not her story.
But it is the story of that terrible stupid catastrophe and some of
its consequences.
It is also the story of a book, a book called The Hitch Hiker's
Guide to the Galaxy - not an Earth book, never published on
Earth, and until the terrible catastrophe occurred, never seen or
heard of by any Earthman.
Nevertheless, a wholly remarkable book.
in fact it was probably the most remarkable book ever to come
out of the great publishing houses of Ursa Minor - of which no
Earthman had ever heard either.
Not only is it a wholly remarkable book, it is also a highly
